docs/install.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: How to install Andromeda
andromeda_version: 2
navigation: "install"
---

## Installation

### Installation with OPAM

The easiest way to install Andromeda is through the [Opam](http://opam.ocamlpro.com)
package manager for OCaml. You can install Opam on your system following
[these instructions](http://opam.ocaml.org/doc/Install.html). In case your operating
system does not provide OCaml version >= 4.07, you can install it with `opam switch
4.08.1`. Then simply add the Andromeda repo to opam, update and install Andromeda with
these commands:

    git clone https://github.com/Andromedans/andromeda
    cd andromeda
    opam update
    opam pin add andromeda .    # for installation (confirm twice with "y")
    opam upgrade                # to upgrade

### Building Andromeda

#### Prerequisites

To build Andromeda, you need [OCaml 4.07](http://ocaml.org) or later (and quite possibly
it works with earlier versions too), the
[menhir](http://gallium.inria.fr/~fpottier/menhir/) parser generator and the
[sedlex](https://www.lexifi.com/sedlex) unicode lexer. We recommend using
[Opam](http://opam.ocamlpro.com) for installation of OCaml and dependencies.

If you also install the [ledit](http://opam.ocaml.org/packages/ledit/ledit.2.03/) or
[rlwrap](http://utopia.knoware.nl/~hlub/uck/rlwrap/#rlwrap) utility, the Andromeda
toplevel will use them to give you line editing capabilities.

#### Compilation

Checkout the Andromeda repository

    git clone git@github.com:Andromedans/andromeda.git

or consider [forking it](https://github.com/Andromedans/andromeda#fork-destination-box) if
you indent do contribute to the project.

To build Andromeda type `make` at the command line. This will create the executable
`andromeda.native`. You can run the tests in the `test` subfolder with `make test`.

The file `prelude.m31` contains basic definitions and is loaded when Andromeda is
started (unless the option `--no-prelude` is given).

Commit message:

Move documentation from `gh-pages` to `docs`, update documentation.

docs/install.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: How to install Andromeda
navigation: "install"
---

Andromeda is implemented in [OCaml](https://ocaml.org) and relies on the [OPAM](https://opam.ocaml.org) package manager
for installation. Please make sure you have a recent working OCaml & OPAM.

Execute the following command to get and install Andromeda:

    opam pin add andromeda git+https://github.com/Andromedans/andromeda

We have *not* tested the OPAM installation thoroughly. If you hit problems, please consider compiling Andromeda youself,
as follows.

### How to compile Andromeda

If you would like to compile Andromeda yourself, follow these instructions.

#### Prerequisites

To build Andromeda, you need [OCaml 4.12](https://ocaml.org) or later (and quite possibly
it works with earlier versions too) and several OCaml packages, which you can install by
running

    opam install dune dune-build-info menhir sedlex

If you also install the [ledit](http://opam.ocaml.org/packages/ledit/ledit.2.03/) or
[rlwrap](http://utopia.knoware.nl/~hlub/uck/rlwrap/#rlwrap) utility, the Andromeda
toplevel will use them to give you line editing capabilities.

#### Compilation

Checkout the Andromeda repository

    git clone git@github.com:Andromedans/andromeda.git

or consider [forking it](https://github.com/Andromedans/andromeda#fork-destination-box) if
you indent do experiment with it, or contribute to the project.

To build Andromeda, run the command

    dune build

in the `andromeda` folder. This will create the executable `./andromeda.exe`. You can also run tests with

    dune runtest

If you see no input, the tests passed.

#### Usage

You may run the compiled executable `andromeda.exe`. For basic usage and command-line options, run

    ./andromeda.exe --help
